# IFE-Dust-Source

## Overview of Theory
IFEs were first discovered within the Venusian orbit and were believed to be generated by charged dust mass-loading interplanetary magnetic fields. However, the dust source hypothesis for IFEs remains a controversial stance. This program will attempt to correlate IFEs measured near-Earth in the solar wind to small bodies which could be a source of dust.

A strong candidate dust source will be a small body that has an orbit inclination close to the XY plane (GSE) of the spacecraft and be the region around the time the IFEs were found (i.e. have a small phase difference) for multiple orbits. Because of the large gyroradius of the charged dust, the cloud will travel approximately radially from the source.


## Dust Theory
Dust is produced via numerous collisions with asteroids and comets, which gets photoionized rapidly. Charged particles mass-load the incident magnetic field, create a pile-up (increasing |B|). The resulting bend of the magnetic field around the obstacle generates a force that accelerates the dust cloud away from the sun. This disturbance is seen as an IFE.

## Overview of Code

**NASA API Details**

"[NeoWs (Near Earth Object Web Service)](https://api.nasa.gov/api.html#NeoWS
"NASA NeoWS API") is a RESTful web service for near earth Asteroid information. With NeoWs a user can: search for Asteroids based on their closest approach date to Earth, lookup a specific Asteroid with its NASA JPL small body id, as well as browse the overall data-set.

Data-set: All the data is from the [NASA JPL Asteroid team](http://neo.jpl.nasa.gov/ "Neo JPL Full Dataset in Online Format")"

**Run Code**

`
python pre_processing.py -A DEMO_KEY
`

Parameters: -A [(API_KEY)](https://api.nasa.gov/index.html#apply-for-an-api-key "Get NASA API Key, but a test run works with 'DEMO_KEY'")
